Problem 2A

Phase1/Module 1:

Pre-Processing and statistical validation ChIP, RNA, possibly ATAC-Seq data

Output --> RNA-Seq Count-Matrix, Annotated Peaks with location

Task 1: Investigating the Pre-processing Pipeline
Question/Explanations:

----What resources would I use to run my program? (Great Lakes Cluster)
Access, the cluster use  a SLURM account. Use SnakeMake to tie each of the pre-processing. 
Follow the example in the snakemake file

---If I am using Command Line for pre-processing the 'omics' data how would I use SnakeMake for this?

----How would other users run this code? --> Direct them to the README of the snakemake file

---How are each of the preprocessing step strung together? (SnakeMake)

---What are the reasons and specific steps required for each preprocessing step?
(Go through the ChIP, RNA Seq PP (gaurunteed to be used))
(ATAC-Seq data PP can be tact on for later) All the details are in the DDS.

---Once we have count matrix, How would the statistical power for each dataset be justified (Using RStudio)

---First Sub-Task for phase1 --> Make simulated data for each input



Task 2: Gathering Previous R Code
	sub-Task: Cleaning up previous R code
	sub-Task: Testing it with Post-Processed Toy data sets

Phase2/Module2: Omics Combine and GSEA processing

Merging results of phase 1 based on Annotation process
--> key datatable output (RNA-Seq log2FC, ChIPseq logFC, each respective pvalue, Annotation)

Gene Set Enrichment Functions:
Use gene oncology functions to find most relavant genes and visual them:
Scatterplot visuals


Large Task 3:
Phase3/Module3: Motiff finding

Motiff Finding Using the Peaks from TF ChIP-Seq 

Point of Caution: In order for justification to make sense, the experiments used
to make these datasets must mark the same histone

Current Task
Research How a motiff finder in Rstudio works using GRanges, the ref gene and the integrated omics matrix.





Problem 2B
The largest challenge will be actualy build the motiff finding function using
each integrated data type.
Task 1. Research already existing motiff finding functions
	goal: summarize the key inputs and outputs.

Task 2. Start building the motiff finding
	Goal: decide weather it is best to do it R, UNIX or python
	side-Note--> it completely depends on the integration

Task 3. Integrate the code into the merged file ouput from Module/Phase2 of the project
	Have a working prototype by the end of March.


Post Feedback.
Easy Task 1: To have well documented code and read the paper Britton posted on the Issue:
https://bmcgenomics.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12864-018-4528-x

Medium task 1: Actually coming up with a new feature after the first problem has been solved


Current Tasks 2/26/25:
Finding down-sized RNA-Seq data and starting the ChiP-Preprocessing Pipeline using snakemake



